[CIAPP-5098] Add TeamCity integration to public docs (#16442)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/pipelines/teamcity.md

---
title: Set up Tracing on a TeamCity Pipeline
kind: documentation
aliases:
  - /continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/teamcity
further_reading:
  - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Explore Pipeline Execution Results and Performance"
  - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Troubleshooting CI"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

## Compatibility

> - **Supported TeamCity versions**: 2021.2 or higher

Author: Changed

- **Partial retries**: View partially retried pipeline executions

- **Queue time**: View amount of time pipeline jobs sit in the queue before processing

- **Pipeline failure reasons**: Identify pipeline failure reasons from error messages

## Configure the Datadog integration

The integration between [TeamCity][1] and Datadog CI Visibility is provided through a TeamCity plugin.
To activate the integration:
1. Download the [Datadog CI Integration plugin][5] on the TeamCity server by going to

> Administration -> Plugins -> Browse Plugin Repository.

Author: Done!

2. For the integration to work properly, a [TeamCity composite build][6] must be added as the last build
of the build chain (this step can be skipped if there is already one). Namely, this build must have
a dependency on the current last build of the chain and no other builds depending on it. Build chains not having a
composite build as their last build are ignored by the plugin. Below is an example of an expected build chain,

> in which "Aggregating Results" is the last composite build:

Author: Changed in this way! Only difference is that I used "build chain" instead of "buildchain".

{{< img src="ci/teamcity_build_chain.png" alt="TeamCity build chain with composite build at the end" style="width:90%;">}}
The final composite build should be properly configured in terms of version control settings. It should have

> the VCS Root attached and the [VCS Trigger][13] configured.

Author: Yeah, looks good

3. The following configuration parameters need to be present for the TeamCity projects:
   * `datadog.ci.api.key`: having as value your [Datadog API Key][2].
   * `datadog.ci.site`: having as value {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}.
   * `datadog.ci.enabled`: having as value `true` (`false`

>    can be used to disable the plugin for a specific project).

Author: Changed!

   These configuration parameters can be added either to TeamCity subprojects
   or to the [TeamCity Root Project][10]. When added to the Root project, they are propagated
   to all the subprojects. For example, to enable the plugin for all projects, `datadog.ci.enabled` can be added with
   value `true` to the Root Project. More information on defining configuration parameters

>    are available in the [TeamCity Project Hierarchy][9] docs.

Author: Changed, thanks!

4. To enable the plugin, click on "Enable uploaded plugins" in the Administration -> Plugins page.

> Alternatively, restart the TeamCity server.

Author: Done!

## Visualize pipeline data in Datadog

> The [Pipelines][3] and [Pipeline Executions][4] pages populate with data after the pipelines finish.

Author: Changed

**Note**: The Pipelines page only shows data for the [default branch][12] of each repository.

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer: Would it make sense to move the troubleshooting section to the end of the doc, just before the `Further reading` section? This is the format used in most other integration docs.

Author: Yeah makes sense! I've moved it

> **Note**: The Pipelines page shows data for only the [default branch][12] of each repository.

Author: Thanks, changed

## Troubleshooting

All the logs generated by the Datadog CI Integration plugin are stored inside the `teamcity-server.log` file and can be
accessed from the TeamCity Server by going to "Administration -> Diagnostic -> Server Logs". If the plugin is not behaving

> correctly, these logs can be checked to get additional context on what might be wrong.

Author: Changed

## Git user information

> The plugin retrieves the Git author/committer name and email based on the [TeamCity username style][7].

Author: It's fine to remove the committer part, changed

provide information about the user email. When one of the other username styles is used (**UserId** or **Author Name**),
the plugin automatically generates an email for the user by appending `@Teamcity` to the username.
For example, if the **UserId** username style is used and the git author username is `john.doe`,
the plugin generates `john.doe@Teamcity` as the Git author email. The username style is defined for [VCS Roots][11],
and can be modified in the VCS Root settings.

> <div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note:</strong> The git author email is used for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-danger"><strong>Note:</strong> The Git author email is used for
```

Reviewer: Optional suggestion to update this to be red and more eye-catching because of the potential billing implications.

Author: Makes sense to me, I'll double check that visually is still ok

> and can be modified in the VCS Root settings.

Author: Changed, thanks!

<a href="https://www.datadoghq.com/pricing/?product=ci-visibility#ci-visibility" target="_blank">billing</a> purposes,
therefore there might be cost implications when username styles not providing email

> (<strong>UserId</strong> or <strong>Author Name</strong>) are used. Reach out to us if you have any questions about your use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(<strong>UserId</strong> or <strong>Author Name</strong>) are used. <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/" target="_blank">Reach out to the Datadog support team</a> if you have any questions about your use case.
```

Reviewer: Thanks for confirming that support is the correct team here!

> Reach out to us if you have any questions about your use case.</div>

Author: It's inside an html tag, so I needed to use <strong></strong> to make it bold, but done!

---
title: Set up Tracing on a TeamCity Pipeline
kind: documentation
aliases:
  - /continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/teamcity
further_reading:
  - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Explore Pipeline Execution Results and Performance"
  - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Troubleshooting CI"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

## Compatibility

- **Supported TeamCity versions**: 2021.2 or higher

- **Partial retries**: View partially retried pipeline executions

> - **Queue time**: View amount of time pipeline jobs sit in the queue before processing

Reviewer 2: I would wait for editorial review first. Otherwise you might have to update all of them twice

> - **Queue time**: View amount of time pipeline jobs sit in the queue before processing

Reviewer 3: Ah just saw this comment - I think we should be consistent across providers, don't have strong preference for individual wording so will defer to you and/or docs team reviewer

> - **Pipeline failure reasons**: Identify pipeline failure reasons from error messages

Author: Same as above :/

## Configure the Datadog integration

> The integration between [TeamCity][1] and Datadog CI Visibility is provided through a TeamCity plugin.

Author: Mmm I prefer "provided through" here

To activate the integration:
1. Download the [Datadog CI Integration plugin][5] on the TeamCity server by going to
Administration -> Plugins -> Browse Plugin Repository.

> 2. For the integration to work properly, a [TeamCity composite build][6] must be added as the last build

Reviewer 4: Maybe there's a screenshot you can provide with exactly what people should input there?

Author: For the composite build? Unfortunately the dependencies they need to set really depend on how they structured their build chain :/ The only screenshot I can provide is how to create a composite build, but it's basically a "check" when creating a build, to define that it will be composite

Reviewer 4: understood, I think this makes sense to add it anyway and maybe show what it looks like (a random pipeline with a composition build in the end). Sorry if it does not make sense, feel free to ignore

Author: I've added a sample pipeline as an image, looks fine to me. WDYT?

of the build chain (this step can be skipped if there is already one). Namely, this build must have
a dependency on the current last build of the chain and no other builds depending on it. Build chains not having a
composite build as their last build are ignored by the plugin.
3. The following configuration parameters need to be present for the TeamCity projects:
   * `datadog.ci.api.key`: having as value your [Datadog API Key][2].

>    * `datadog.ci.site`: having as value {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}.

Author: Not sure I get your question, but the webhooks intake path is https://webhook-intake.{{DD_SITE}}/api/v2/webhook, where DD_SITE can be one of:

- datadoghq.com (default)
- datadoghq.eu
- us3.datadoghq.com
- us5.datadoghq.com

The Plugin just compose the path based on the DD_SITE provided in the parameter. Here, the value can be one of those basically.

>    * `datadog.ci.site`: having as value {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}.

Reviewer 2: ok that's great I was thinking the templating would give us only us1/us3/eu1 etc

   * `datadog.ci.enabled`: having as value `true` (`false`
   can be used to disable the plugin for a specific project).

   These configuration parameters can be added either at TeamCity subprojects level
   or at the [TeamCity Root Project][10] level. When added at the Root project level, they are propagated
   to all the subprojects. For example, to enable the plugin for all projects, `datadog.ci.enabled` can be added with
   value `true` to the Root Project. More information on defining configuration parameters
   are available in the [TeamCity Project Hierarchy][9] docs.
4. Enable the plugin by restarting the TeamCity server.

## Visualize pipeline data in Datadog

The [Pipelines][3] and [Pipeline Executions][4] pages populate with data after the pipelines finish.

> **Note**: The Pipelines page shows data for only the default branch of each repository.

Author: Mmm I see that the only related thing that that page says is that the pipelines list won't display data if the default branch is incorrect, which is already implicitly said in the sentence, no?

> **Note**: The Pipelines page shows data for only the default branch of each repository.

Reviewer 4: It also explains how to fix it

> **Note**: The Pipelines page shows data for only the default branch of each repository.

Author: Fair, I've linked the term

## Troubleshooting

All the logs generated by the Datadog CI Integration plugin are stored inside the `teamcity-server.log` file and can be
accessed from the TeamCity Server by going to "Administration -> Diagnostic -> Server Logs". If the plugin is not behaving
correctly, these logs can be checked to get additional context on what might be wrong.

> ## Git user information

Reviewer 4: I think we should give a recommendation on what people should do here, before we tell them what does not work

Author: Makes sense, let me add that part here

Author: Changed!

The plugin retrieves the Git author and committer information based on the [TeamCity username style][7].
TeamCity has two username styles that do not contain the user email in them: "UserId" or "Author Name". When
one of these styles is used, the plugin automatically generates an email for the user by adding `@Teamcity`
at the end of the username.
For example, the plugin generates `john.doe@Teamcity` as the Git author email when the "UserId" username
style is used and the git author username is `john.doe`.

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note:</strong> The git author email is used for
<a href="https://www.datadoghq.com/pricing/?product=ci-visibility#ci-visibility" target="_blank">billing</a> purposes,
therefore there might be cost implications when either "UserId" or "Author Name" are used as TeamCity username styles.

> Reach out to us if you have any questions about your use case.</div>

Author: How can I say "Reach out to us" without incurring in these warnings? Contact Datadog support?
